# School_District_Analysis
## Overview of Analysis
### Purpose
The purpose of this analysis was to determine the math and reading scores for the schools and the district as a whole, but adjusted to remove the 9th grade scores from Thomas High School, given the evidence of academic dishonesty taking place in that grade and that school. Removing the 9th grade scores from Thomas High School should provide us with a more accurate picture of how students and schools in the district are performing, given other factors, such as school type, school spending and school size.
## Results
- The district summary looks to be largely unchanged by removing the 9th grade scores from Thomas High School. Since the 9th grade class at Thomas High School only made up just over 1% of the original dataset, the overall performance of the district as a whole did not see much of an impact from removing those scores.
- For the summary for each of the schools in the district, obviously Thomas High School was the only school that was affected by the new analysis, as they were the only school to have any students removed from the new analysis. Thomas High School saw a slight decrease in their average math scores and math passing rate, from 93.27% to 93.19%, and even though their average reading score improved, the reading passing rate also saw a slight decrease, from 97.31% to 97.02%. These changes in their math and reading passing rates also led to their overall passing rate decreasing from 90.95% originally to 90.63% after removing their 9th grade class. Screenshots of the original and school summary tables with Thomas High School's performance are included in the attached Resources folder.
- Compared to the other schools in the district, Thomas High School was relatively unaffected by removing the 9th grade scores. While their overall passing rate did decrease slightly, they still kept their spot with the 2nd highest overall passing rate of 90.63%, just below Cabrera High School's 91.33% overall passing rate, and remaining just above Griffin High School's 90.60% overall passing rate and Wilson High School's 90.58% overall passing rate.
- The changes in the data only impacted Thomas High School's 9th grade class in terms of scores by grade, none of the other average scores and passing rates by school were impacted by the changes, and Thomas High School's 3 other grades were also unchanged.
- The scores by school spending, school size and school type also all look to be mostly unaffected by removing the 9th grade class from Thomas High School from the data. The scores and passing rates for Thomas High School's categories (the $630-$644 spending range, Medium size, Charter school) look to be about the same for the original and new analysis. The attached Resources folder has images of the original and new analysis dataframes for each of these factors (school spending, school size, school type).
## Summary
Overall, there were a few changes that removing the Thomas High School 9th grade scores had on the analysis, mostly related to Thomas High School itself. Thomas High School's average math score decreased from 83.42 to 83.35, wihch also dropped their math passing rate from 93.27% to 93.19%. The new data also impacted Thomas High School's average reading score, which increased from 83.85 to 83.90, but interestingly, their reading passing rate actually decreased from 97.31% tp 97.02%. These changes to Thomas High School's individual passing rates also led to a decrease in their overall passing rate, which went from 90.95% to 90.63%.
One of the changes relative to another school with the new analysis comes up when comparing Thomas High School with two other top schools, Cabrera High School and Griffin High School. In the original analysis, Thomas High School had a higher average math score (83.4183) than Griffin High School (83.3515), but after the new analysis, Thomas dropped just below Griffin on average math score, with a new average score of 83.3509 with out the 9th grade scores.
Thomas High School also had a higher reading passing rate (97.31%) in the original analysis than Cabrera (97.04%) and Griffin (97.14%) High Schools, but dropped below both of them with the new analysis, going down to 97.02%.
